---
title: "Cooperative autonomous traffic organization method for connected automated vehicles in multi-intersection road networks"
collection: talks
type: "Tutorial"
permalink: /talks/2019-03-27-talk-3
venue: "Intelligent Transportation and Intelligent Vehicle Forum, School of Traffic and Transportation Science and Engineering,Beihang University"
date: 2019-03-27
location: "Beijing, China"
---

[More information here](http://exampleurl.com)

  The application of Connected Automated Vehicles (CAVs) with advanced control strategies will enhance the traffic conditions of road network. It is one of the frontier directions of intelligent traffic systems. This study proposes an autonomous cooperative traffic method for CAVs travelling in multi-intersection road network. Before entering the road network, CAVs can plan routes to improve efficiency and optimize trajectories according to individual needs. First of all, we study the autonomous crossing strategy of for CAVs at an isolated intersection, and obtain the conditions for CAVs to entry and leave intersections. These conditions can be used to optimize the trajectories at road segments connecting adjacent intersections. The running safety, energy conservation, and ride comfort are ensured in the process of trajectory optimization. Moreover, to improve the efficiency of road network, we propose a composite strategy of route planning considering autonomous traffic and cooperative traffic. The idea of composite strategy embodies system optimization and user equilibrium. In simulated experiments, we validate the efficiency of the proposed method under different traffic conditions. 
